Okay we are going to take a quick look at
Firebug. Now that this is a Firefox
extension that has been around forever
and I have it installed now and I am
going to go ahead and activate it and it
comes up to the HTML tag by default. You
can see as I'm going through, it's
highlighting the different sections of
the code. So just don't have too much
going on this page. So not a lot of
interesting activity there for us to
look at. This does also have CSS tabs,
JavaScript, but we don't have a
JavaScript here. A DOM Explorer which is
handy if we're doing a lot of JavaScript
stuff and then also the net tab. You can
see that is blank but if I come in and
refresh the page, we'll get some data. We
can see that it went out and made that
single request. Now I am recording this
in June of 2017 and took a look out at
the plugin page and it's interesting
that Firebug is ending as we know it. So
I know it's a very popular tool. That's
why I'm leaving it in for now but we are
going to a Firefox developer edition and
the developer edition has some cool
stuff in it.
Very. I mean it looks like some very
powerful tools for serious web
developers. So pretty cool stuff there
for that but just to quickly recap
the focus on this Firebug. This
plug-in is going to be around for a little while yet.
So I'm going to leave this in and the
course for now because it is such a
popular tool set and you do get a
console view, HTML view, see CSS
resources. You can actually change CSS
on-the-fly here and stuff like that and
also I want to pay special attention to a
request here. So we can see a nice
view of what was sent to the server. The
response that we got back. So a simple
HTML document. Explore it in HTML mode
and then we can see cache and cookies
and those are kind of advanced topics
that can both get you in trouble at
times. So that is Firebug for
Firefox. Again that is a Firefox
extension which seems to be going away. So not sure how much
longer it is going to be around but it's
currently available for
current generation of Firefox as of June
of 2017. So it's probably going to be
available for a little bit. It's a very
stable tool. Very very popular and I
think it became the most popular web
tool for Firefox because Firefox itself
did not have native developer tools. So
now that created a whole developer
edition and I'm going to check that out
and report back to you on that.